The need for blackboards is very high in online classes. This can also be used in offline classes as smart classes to provide user a contact free environment. There have been many changes in online education and one of the most important changes is the introduction of virtual boards. However, the virtual board is designed to recognize hands and respect landmarks, and only one point of his is required to draw on the board. No distance calculation required. Draw wherever a landmark is recognized. However, sometimes the hand moves randomly and draws unnecessary drawings on the board, resulting in many drawing mistakes. The idea for our project is to recognize landmarks on the hand, then find the distance between two points on the finger, and ensure that the distance between the points is within a specified range when the fingers are close together and only then the writing would be done on the board. We can close the camera and board windows by pressing the ‘Esc’ key on your keyboard and press the 'x' key on our keyboard to erase any writing or drawing on the board. Our hand gesture-based virtual blackboard system provides an easy-to-use interface for digital drawing. It offers users a compelling and engaging experience that allows them to easily express their ideas. Our technology provides a cutting-edge solution with enormous potential across numerous sectors, including design, education, and collaborative brainstorming, by utilizing computer vision, machine learning, and real-time rendering. We hope to make digital drawing accessible, interesting, and appealing to a variety of users by utilizing these tool.
